Before we dive into the components which I've mentioned would be the heart of your Ionic application,
let me go through the core building blocks of a typical Ionic app though and with that, I really mean
an app that could run both on the web or on a native device wrapped into a native mobile app distributed
through the app stores.
And here again these UI components, these Ionic components are one of the most important or actually
the most important building block you need in any Ionic app.
Later in this course though, we'll also learn about things like theming and styling which basically is
all about adjusting the look of these components because whilst they look beautiful out of the box, in
your specific application, you will have your own style, your own corporate identity you want to show
and you want to use and Ionic doesn't stop you from doing so, just because these components look good
out of the box does not mean that you can't style them and we'll touch on this later in the course in a
separate theming and styling module because it's so important.
Now when we're building anything by the very trivial Ionic app, we'll also need to dive into navigation
and that basically means that we want to switch between different pages of our app. Now a page here doesn't
technically mean a new document fetched from a server,
instead you typically build a so-called single page application where frameworks like Angular or Vue
or libraries like React together with React Router drive the change of pages and the rendering of different
parts of your app onto the screen and in mobile apps as well,
there we also know that concept of tapping something, seeing a new page and then tapping the back button
to go back.
So this navigation process, both in the web and in a native app, that is also something we'll dive deeply
into in this course.
Now when we're building a bigger application, there will also be the point of time where we need to take
care about state management and actually state management plays an important role even in tiny apps
but there, it's very simple
but the more complex your app gets, the harder
state management becomes and state management,
just in case you're not sure what this means, really refers to the management of data and information
in your running app, something like is the user currently sending a request and should I show a spinner,
that would be state or something like a list of loaded products, that would be another form of state.
And this is also something where not Ionic directly but frameworks like Angular can help us and therefore
we'll also dive into this later in the course.
Now when we leave the web app world and we plan on publishing our Ionic app as a real native app through the
apps stores, then we'll have it wrapped in this web view, in this real native app shell and we'll have
this bridge to tap into native device features like a camera and that is another important building
block of Ionic apps.
Now admittedly, not so much of web apps, though you can tap into some native device features there as
well as you will also learn in this course but mostly in native apps where you can actually access
the entire bandwidth of native device features, something like face ID,
touch ID or the location of the user and so on, all of that is possible and is made possible not by the
Ionic component suite but by capacitor which is also developed by the Ionic team or alternatively, Cordova
which is not developed by them but which is supported by Ionic. And last but not least, the CLI and
that holds a port
you'll also get for the build workflow and for the publishing workflow of your app, that also is part of
the Ionic world and that is also what we'll have a look at later in this course.
But for now in this module, we'll dive into these UI components because as I mentioned, no matter which
app you're building and no matter how it looks or how complex it is and if it's just a web app or both
a web app and a mobile app, you will use these components.
So let's now dive into them.